hello everybody it's nice of you to join
me today i don't know where you are in
the world in fact into the chat can you
just tell me where you are i'll be so
interested
uh canada uh iran russia
qatar nigeria bahrain
panama india philippines indonesia
uzbekistan somebody's from mars which is
good
it's probably our first student from
mars so that's nice to see you
hope it's not too hot over in mars at
the moment kurdistan new zealand
uk oh my god there's lots of people
there's lots of countries in the world
and you're all here and that's totally
cool all right i was a little bit late
so let's just
cut to the chase and get started okay
and of course i killed my presentation
so let me bring that up
what we're going to do today is look at
ielts speaking and we're going to do
some live
practice that is i'm going to pick a few
of you out of the audience to actually
do some speaking part one
it's part two and some part three as
well
and i'm going to provide you with some
feedback and hopefully
everybody listening in will be able to
benefit from that and see what you're
doing well and what you're not doing
well
and how you can improve so on test day
you get a high score because
at the end of the day that's what it's
all about right
so let me share my screen with you and
we'll get started i have to share my
audio i think yes
cool all right cool let's get started so
what we're going to do specifically in
today's class is i'm going to give you
a bit of a broad and brief overview of
ielts speaking you probably already know
what happens
then we're going to look at speaking
part one and we'll do a little open mic
i'll get two people to do some part one
questions
then we'll do part two we'll do the same
thing part three we'll do the same thing
we'll do a little q a and this might
take about an hour hour
and a half to get through so let's get
started
so broadly what happens in ielts
speaking well the whole
thing goes for between 11 and 14 minutes
which is not a very long period of time
there are three parts which i just
briefly mentioned
it's actually one-on-one with an
examiner it is marked
by the person you are speaking to on
test day
it is not marked by a computer
the three parts are like this the first
part i refer to as
small talk because it's pretty much just
small talk
part two is where it starts to get
pretty challenging i
find i'm not going to say i don't like
it but i'll say part two is challenging
because you have to speak for two
minutes and do
a monologue mono one that is one person
that's you speaking for up to two
minutes
then in part three you have a discussion
which i find much easier than part
two but it's a much more philosophical
deeper discussion where you really get
to express yourself
and expand your vocabulary and do
wonderful things with your language
okay importantly how are you scored in
ielts speaking you're scored on
well it's actually not four criteria
because if you look closely at it number
one has two
parts fluency and coherence
i'll talk about these in a second what
that actually means
vocabulary range and accuracy so there's
almost
two parts to vocab there same with
grammar
it's not just grammatical accuracy
you're also scored on your grammatical
range or the variability of your grammar
how many different sentence structures
and verb tenses and modal verbs and
conditionals and
things like that that you can put in in
a natural sounding way
not forced and pronunciation and
pronunciation
in itself is a very complicated uh
aspect of speaking it involves many
different elements which we've touched
on right
now so what happens on test day is while
you're doing the speaking the examiner
is going to be writing things down
don't pay too much attention to what
they're writing down you have no idea if
they're writing that was amazing or that
was terrible it doesn't matter
but what they're doing is marking you
against this thing
here that you see on your screen these
are called the public ban descriptors
this is all the linguistic
jargon about where you score from zero
to nine
okay put simply
fluency and coherence which account for
25 percent of your score
mean that you speak effortlessly
or with very little effort nobody really
speaks effortlessly
it's always a little bit of a strain and
a challenge and there's hesitations
and pausing etc but some people speak
more
effortlessly than others that your ideas
and the way you speak is connected that
is your sentences
are connected and your ideas are well
developed
now just notice here in fluency and
coherence that you are
not scored for speaking on topic and
we'll get to that a little bit later
on the right hand side of that you'll
see vocabulary this is
worth 25 percent of your mark as well
and as i mentioned
you have to be precise with the words
you choose okay so you're choosing the
right word
at the right time to make the right
meaning and also your vocabulary
your vocabulary needs to be varied
that is you don't want to be repetitious
with your vocab
okay you want to try and use a broad
range of vocabulary when you're speaking
about specific topics
and when we think about vocabulary we're
not thinking just about
single words we're thinking about
phrases
and collocations and perhaps some idioms
and things like this as well
related to specific topics down
on the bottom left you'll see grammar
everybody's
favorite friend 25
again it has to be accurate that is if
you're talking about
uh plurality more than one you'll say
glasses and you use plural nouns so you
have to get your grammar
accurate the verb tenses the right
preposition the plural noun etc
and also it has to be varied so you
can't
just answer in short simple sentences
you need to use some longer sentences
you might
um i don't know we'll certainly hear
people
speaking today and i'll talk about i'll
give them feedback on their grammar
the other aspect which i mentioned which
is also worth 25
is pronunciation that is clarity of your
speech
that is how well you're able to
articulate all of the sounds
of english okay one thing you'll need to
be mindful of
is how much your first language
interferes
with the clarity of the sounds of
english that you make okay
so it's totally fine to have an accent
your accent is wonderful it's beautiful
everybody loves
accents but does your accent actually
interfere or
impact with the clarity of your english
pronunciation that's one thing to
consider
emphasis okay so you do want to use word
stress and
sentence stress correctly stressed
properly is word stress in particular
and i'm
looking at you people from south india
who don't have word stress in your first
language
connected speech that is that you're
able to
put the word here link up your sentences
in a
in a in a way where they're connected
actually
uh we just launched a video actually on
our e2 school youtube channel which you
might want to check out on connected
speech the last thing is pausing
of course you're allowed to pause
because we pause to create
meaning okay so pausing is important
this is how you're scored
this is how i will score you if you get
the chance to speak today
okay cool and just before i move on if
you do go to e2school.com it's our new
website there is a pronunciation
course there which you can check out if
you do need to build your pronunciation
skills
cool bananas so check out e2school.com
for speaking
a cool speaking course okay let's
imagine it is
test day you're sitting in the waiting
room hopefully you're not feeling too
nervous but if you
are that's totally expected your hands
will be sweaty your heart will be racing
so be it it's only going to be 11 to 14
minutes of your life
you can do this so you'll somebody will
come and get you from the room they'll
say they'll read out your name
you'll walk with the examiner to another
little room
you'll sit down and then you'll do the
id check
in which case the examiner will say my
name is
whatever my name is jay could you tell
me your full name
and you're just just this is not a part
this is not assessed
and so you'll just say your full name
okay and then
they'll ask you can you tell me where
you're from and again you just say
i'm from australia i'm from india i'm
from canada whatever
then they'll say can i see your id
please and this is where you think oh my
god did i leave
my passport at home hopefully not then
you'll hand over your passport they'll
record some details
and then all of this is not assessed
then you move into the first part of the
exam and it's
pretty simple let's call it small talk
but if you need help with your ielts
like
more than just small talk if you're
concerned about your ielts score
do check out e2language.com that's where
all of the methods lessons live classes
practice questions etc are
at cool so the examiner in part one will
ask you
12 questions on three different topics
there'll be questions about yourself
your life
and your country such as do you live in
a big city or a small town did you play
sport as a child etc
here is a list of possible part one
topics
these are from sort of general english
work
study hometown weather transport tv
sport shopping reading pets
newspapers neighbors not the tv show
music hobbies family friends evenings
dictionaries that's a weird one daily
routines
computers clothes childhood birthdays
art happiness going out
food or flowers why not let's talk about
flowers
okay these are some possible topics that
you will see
now one of the things that you should be
learning
prior to your ielts test are the e2
language methods which are very powerful
they work for speaking they work for
writing they work for reading
and listening as well so with this one
it's pretty straightforward in part one
you're going to give a short response of
a few sentences okay
you are certainly not extending out your
responses you're just answering in about
10 to 15 seconds on each question
what you need to do is give your opinion
maybe provide
a detail or details perhaps you can give
a contrast
for example with flowers you could say
well
my grandmother really likes red roses
but for me personally i like
daisies i don't know there's a contrast
compare the past to the present
when i was younger i used to like
azaleas i don't know but now i actually
really like
daffodils or you can compare the present
to the future
who knows what i'll like in the future
when i'm old and give reasons as well so
these are some
ways to expand upon your speaking to
increase your score
cool right let's do it i'm going to pick
someone
from the crowd here
let me remember how to do this
participants i need to click there i
need to click on attendees
um holy mo if i don't choose you i'm
really sorry but there's 609
people um 609 people so
let me just find somebody here
okay all right emma lark has
uh his or her exam tomorrow so let's do
that
hello emma lock hello hello how are you
i'm good how are you
nice to have you where are you calling
from i'm from india
nice which part uh new delhi
new delhi oh cool okay i was there
recently actually how interesting
all right um i'm gonna skip the really
simple questions usually
in this part of the exam the examiner
will ask you you know do you live in a
house or an apartment or something like
that
let's skip that let's let's jump to the
slightly more complex questions
which
i've forgotten to put in so let's talk
about whether you live in a house or an
apartment so i'm a luck
let actually let me do the examiner
thing here
now in this first part i'd like to ask
you some questions about yourself
let's talk about where you live do you
live in a house or an apartment
so i live in a house i've been living
since
my childhood and i have been attached to
it
okay good that was a fine length of time
by the way so what's the favorite room
in your house
amalak my favorite
room is uh close to the balcony
my room is adjacent to it i love it
because
it has all these beautiful
windows with itself and i can
have a good look of the view through it
would you like to move to a different
house in the future amaluk
uh since i've been living here since my
childhood
i have been grown attached to it and i
do not prefer to move
outside it but if i go to some different
country i definitely might consider
to shift to a different house
good all right that's that's fine there
i'm like i'll get to the stop
um okay a few a few bits of feedback
there first of all
nice length responses there not too long
i think you
you did really well you didn't go on for
too long if you do go on for too long in
the exam the exam
examiner will say thank you and just get
you to stop but there's nothing wrong
with that
um it was good i felt like you tried to
uh you tried to include some interesting
language some adjectives you talked
about the balcony the windows etc so
you did exercise some vocabulary range
there which was good
um i couldn't i couldn't pick up any
grammatical errors
it was some phrase that you said which
was a little bit strange which was i am
attached to it
but maybe that's just my understanding
as the examiner
because attached couldn't have those two
meanings there but um
good that was fine uh cool thanks very
much i'm a lock
uh you have your exam tomorrow is that
right yes
well i wish you all the very best with
that please let us know how you go okay
thank you for picking me
no worries thank you okay
okay cool uh i don't think we need to do
any more of
part one we're going to skip to part two
because that's where the rubber hits the
road so let me share my screen again
and we'll start talking about this more
challenging aspect of the test
cool but i think amalek did well there
just short
clean responses a bit of descriptive
language tried to exercise some
vocabulary accurate grammar that's as
good as it gets
okay here we go in part two i'm going to
skip that advertisement
in part two you are given a task card
okay and you have one minute to prepare
then you have two minutes to speak while
you're preparing you can take
notes in fact they give you a pen or a
pencil and a piece of paper
to take notes on that particular task
card which is critical
sometimes after the little two-minute
monologue you'll get one or two
follow-up questions okay so the task
card might look something like this
this one says describe a teacher who has
impressed you
you should say who he or she is how you
first met him or her
why you were impressed and explain how
you feel about this
teacher now so they give you that they
say you have one minute to prepare
you'll sit there here's the question
what do you do in the preparation time
my experience of having taken this exam
five times is that that one minute
flashes by
very quickly and there's very little
thinking that you can actually do
especially if you're under pressure
what i do when i'm doing this is i
simply write down the names of
one two or possibly three teachers from
my past
okay or as we'll talk about
a teacher that i would like to have in
the future
so the first person that comes to my
mind is my primary school teacher who is
my friend's mom so i'd write that one
down right
and then i'd think okay what's another
who's another teacher who's another
teacher okay there was one
recently with that university degree
that i did he was a great teacher
i'll write his name down and then i
think okay future who would i like
to learn from in the future i'll write
that person's name down
that's as good as it gets i think you
write basically
three ideas down this is how i approach
it anyway
so what's the method then the method
that i like we call
ppf or past present future because i'm
going to tell
two or three different stories about
different people here okay
one from the past one from the recent
present and one
from the hypothetical future okay
or i could talk about one particular
teacher
and talk about them in the past and
perhaps talk about them in the present
now maybe i bumped into them recently or
something like that or perhaps i watched
somebody on youtube
years ago and then i've watched them
recently so it doesn't have to be three
separate people
you can't actually just divide up the
time with the single person
why do we do this why do we use ppf well
first of all it's going to force you to
vary
your grammar because if you are talking
about someone from the past
naturally you're going to use past tense
verbs your language will work like that
and if you're talking about someone from
the recent present
naturally you'll be talking in the
present perfect and if you're talking
about someone in the hypothetical future
you'll be talking about would could
might wouldn't it be nice etc
using modal verbs or conditionals things
like this
so it varies up your grammar but i think
for me
more importantly what it does is uh it
allows me
to continue speaking and i don't get
stuck and i don't go round and round in
circles
that's one method another method is the
traditional method
this is where you just simply follow the
prompts on the
card here you certainly can in ppf also
follow the prompts
but here you start with a short
introduction maybe you say something
like
in my life i've had many fantastic
teachers i've been extremely lucky
i didn't have the best education i
didn't go to the best schools
but certainly people from school and
also people that i've met in my life
have been great teachers to me okay so
i've just made up some sort of
introduction
then i'll start to focus on the
particular teacher
and talk about who she is when i first
met her
why i was impressed et cetera okay
anyway these are
two different methods i think
leading up to your test you should
practice both and choose the one
that you prefer okay
just before we actually do the practice
here are the possible
topics for part two so
you can categorize the different topics
like this you might talk about a person
a place a physical object an abstract
object
or a time okay and if you look at a
person maybe it's an old person a young
person a famous person a particular
occupation like a doctor or an
engineer if your family maybe what
teenagers do now
a place a fun place maybe your task card
will ask you about a crowded place
an interesting place like a museum the
countryside versus the city
a social place a house a different
country
a physical object you might have to talk
about a book
a film a gift a device like
i don't know a camera a business i've
definitely had that question before
being asked about a particular business
an abstract object like a website
the weather is that abstract anyway
profession
goals or dreams language holiday
environment
you might also be asked to talk about a
time a particular time or a particular
memory that you have about being
happy or sad or bored or excited or
pleased or disappointed
where you've needed help or asked for
advice
been given good news lost something
found something learned something or
remembered something okay so you can see
it starts to get a little bit more
complicated than part two
sorry then part one okay cool let's
practice um we want to uh
first of all i just want you to practice
by yourself and then i'll select a
couple of people
so i'm going to disappear you have let's
pretend i'm doing it i'm the examiner i
hand you the role play
the task card i hand you a pencil and a
piece of paper and say you have one
minute to prepare
and then you'll have two minutes to
speak i'm going to disappear
start preparing now
okay you can begin speaking
thank you so one thing just to note is
that
ielts speaking examiners will never say
good
or um even okay all they're allowed to
say to you is
thank you because they're not allowed to
indicate to you if you're doing well or
not well etc
right so uh cool now
that's kind of hard right it's kind of
hard to just keep going and remain
speaking about a single topic for two
minutes and make it interesting and
coherent
and have good fluency and varied
vocabulary etc
so just let's have a look at this again
again this is how you're scored
just self-evaluate for a second here and
just for
fun let's pop it into the chat what's
your score out of ielts 9
based on the criteria give yourself a
score for your performance then
moses 8.5 nice work
okay what do we got what do we got what
have we got nisha 7 simon 6.5 ayat 7
samurai 7.5
kazi five jug preach seven umara eight
wouldn't it be lovely if you could just
simply score yourself in ielts that's
never gonna happen
cool let's do it which one of you brave
souls wants to actually perform this
live let me stop screen sharing and let
me
also remember how to do this again moses
considering your first let me find you
moses miller okay let me find you moses
there you are
hello moses
sorry say something again it sounds like
a mouse
[Music]
all right moses i'm not sure what's
going on there but your your thing's a
little funny it sounds a bit squeaky i'm
gonna select somebody else
sorry
no why does it do this
all right
all right sorry i've got this this
happened last time
when i try and click on the thing it
flashes and i can't click it let me just
see if i can
alright got it i just had to be quick
all right
and it didn't okay good all right let me
find somebody else let me find somebody
else
benjamin benjamin benjamin
benjamin there's benjamin
benjamin hello
hello yes fantastic that's nice and
clear yeah
terrific thank you all right where are
you calling from benjamin
i'm from the netherlands ah wow
are you there now or are you in another
country yeah i'm there
right now okay what time is it there
oh it's uh 11 about 12 o'clock 11.
okay terrific yes now what i'm going to
do
is i need to share my screen again with
you
all right i hope you've got some nice uh
something to say about art
if you can talk about dutch hearts yeah
i would try my best
all right rock and roll so i'm going to
disappear i'm going to give you two
minutes benjamin and
away you go thank you
my first work of art assault is
architecture i know many people don't
because they consider architecture as in
a work of art
but the first time i saw it i was about
yeah i was around 10 years old and my
father was building a house
yeah right there then i fell in love
with architecture
and i considered it myself and not
uh yeah the first thing also it's
yeah it's uh very complicated to
understand
you have to yeah it has meaning behind
behind it
and the more you look in in in the art
of
architecture the more you understand
like every single thing
on the architecture project has the same
as a meaning
and right after that moment i fell in
love with architecture
uh uh by myself i'm uh
i'm i'm going to study architecture it's
what
i've yeah it's one of my goals in life
i don't know much about it because i've
not yet started
the study of it but so far
what i know is that without
architecture yeah the the world will be
much
boring because every everywhere you go
different cities different countries
the first thing you notice is
architecture
yeah that's that that's one of the
reason i found architecture work of
art because and that is something you
have
desire for something you like something
you look at and
feel amused thank you
thank you cool all right i've got some
feedback
for you there benjamin um
thank you actually before i give you
feedback can you just tell me
how do you feel about your performance
there
i feel like i got stuck in the went
around of it
repeating the same sentences over and
over yeah it's
i think that's the biggest problem in
this section of the test is just simply
running out of ideas
you run out of ideas run out of language
and you get back to the same
and this is not my yeah this is not my
past yeah
like it's it's art i'm not such an art
person gotcha fair enough i think um
your choice of topic was good though
because architecture could be considered
art that's perfectly
uh fine choice there so i'll give you
some feedback here
um okay was it effortless yes you didn't
seem to be hesitating
looking for language so i feel like you
have the you have the vocabulary and the
grammar which is good
um yeah connected with your ideas
connected this is where you'd probably
fall down because i think you're right
you're sort of a bit repetitive you went
back you sort of stopped and then you
had to
drag some other old ideas back up um so
if it wasn't very well developed
i give you a good score on uh precision
of vocabulary
and i'd give you a reasonably good score
on the variety of vocabulary
but probably a bit too repetitious um
but that's again it was an idea problem
not really a language problem
uh grammar i i think grammatically it
was
fine i've got no issues with grammar
pronunciation
um you've got a few issues there um
architecture um i think you're sort of
hitting his architecture i couldn't
quite get that one
uh yeah that's probably because uh
yeah different languages in in dutch
language
it's more architected this uh gotcha
kind of mix
yeah yeah well that that's that this is
a problem for
people whose language is actually close
to english is like oh
which which is the correct one yeah
exactly
there was a a pretty strong
pronunciation
issue with the th sound so something
something
yours sounds a bit like some thing like
an f sound
oh okay a little bit so i'm going to
note that
yeah that's an important one
cool but um i commend you on your
bravery well done
what i recommend you do um while you're
preparing is try out that ppf method
so instead of just choosing the one
topic running out of ideas and therefore
running out of language
once you exhaust an idea yeah
okay you've talked about architecture
you've run out of ideas at about the one
minute mark
then have another idea written down that
you can switch to like maybe you'll talk
then about painting or something like
that okay
i think you'll find that we'll boost
your score okay thank you very much jake
no worries thanks for that yeah it
helped me so far thank you
okay cool um
all right that was interesting
cool uh
let's let's um hold on one second
charles what's the time there
9 40 9 40. all right let's push on we're
going to change
topics now uh we're going to do another
topic so let me share my screen
and do it
they're with me and all this crazy
technology
let's practice another one all right
this time we're not talking about
art this time i'm going to hand over the
task card to
you have one minute to prepare and i
really do encourage you this time
to try to talk about more than just one
idea so you don't run out of ideas so
you can vary your language okay
so this time you're going to talk about
this i'm going to give you
one minute to prepare and two minutes to
speak this is just by yourself
i'll see you in three minutes
wrong one sorry you can begin speaking
okay i just noted a typographical error
it should say
why you can't afford it somebody pick
that out cool anyway i think you've got
the gist
there uh how did you go let's again look
at the scoring because
this is what it's all about
effortless connected ideas
well-developed vocabulary is precise but
varied grammar is accurate but varied
your pronunciation is clear good
emphasis good word stress
it's connected speech and good use of
pausing
let's do this live why not why not
let me stop screen sharing and let me go
to here and
let's hope that this works again this
time i'm going to choose
manaline mendeline manolin where are you
there you are
hello madeline hi
good evening sir jay i'm sorry i'm from
the philippines so
it's already it's 6 39 in the evening
terrific there you go i like i like how
the filipino students call me sergey and
it's kind of
it's unusual must be part of your
culture
it is especially because i am a
healthcare worker
so we address everyone with sir our mom
the show to everyone nice
nice all right madeline are you ready to
talk about
let me fix that typo why you can't
you're going to talk
you're going to tell me you're going to
describe something that you'd like to
buy but you can't afford
let me share my screen with you yes
thank you sir no problem and you've got
two minutes
and your time starts now okay
um growing up in the philippines
i have never been spoiled by my mother
to buy any gadgets or any mobile devices
that's actually um just new to the
market
uh now that i am working and earning my
own money
one thing that i have an eye on is
actually the
latest ios phone which is the iphone 12
pro max so it's a product that's
a very up-to-date that's
recently been released by apple and
i have always wanted to have an updated
mobile
just to keep up with my friends
and to get more pictures i love
traveling
and uh taking photos with an iphone
nowadays is
very useful and it's less technical
compared to a camera or a dslr
so it's very expensive for me because
a decent addition one would be
around 90 000 pesos that's more than a
thousand dollars
and it is way above my pay grade
so it's not really within my budget
but in the future if i do save some
more money and spend less on my
travel tickets i think i would afford it
especially now that
it's a pandemic i can lessen my travels
around the philippines and
set aside some money for the iphone 12
pro max
so that's an expensive item that i
cannot afford as of now
the iphone 12.
okay cool okay
uh great well done uh before i give
feedback um
what do you think how did you go okay
i i am actually shaking right now
good practice i think i would be
sweating right now look it's not for the
aircon
i think i got
less than seven i look i won't talk
about scores but one thing
one thing i'll talk about is uh it's
completely natural that you're going to
sweat on tests and your voice will
tremble
uh it's completely fine so try not to
worry about that
like examiners see all sorts of things
happen
on test day of people you know shaking
and sweating and
whatever that's not what they're
concerned about they're concerned about
language they're concerned about you
paying attention to telling a good story
i thought you told a good
i hope i did yeah i just wasn't sure
about my grammar if i was
giving i've got a few a few points here
um first of all
what you did there by bringing in past
present and future
you talked about a single object the
phone that you want to get which is fine
but by talking about the past present
and future it really did bring in
a lot of interesting grammar and whatnot
so that was that was really clever so
use the ppf method you didn't talk about
three i did
objects you talked about one object but
in different sort of times and that was
that worked really well i've been
following you
actually for the vps
where's my i have a friend that i always
practice with
oh good he's actually british whenever i
try to use the pps method he
sometimes he can keep up with the
grammar that's what he says
nice nice it works so i'll give you some
feedback so
vocab please especially good
um some of the phrases you use were very
natural like
i'll keep an eye on a decent one above
my paint grade
um set aside money all of these phrases
are particularly relevant when talking
about money or that particular
topic there so your vocabulary range was
fantastic and it wasn't just single
words
collocations and phrases etc your
pronunciation
is is clear you have a a you have an
accent as everybody has an accent
but there's certainly clarity there so
there's no issues no issues around me
thinking oh what's that word no it was
very clear
um grammar a couple of little slips here
and there but i honestly didn't think
it's a big issue
um and the story i i
i hear that you like to speak i think
you like to speak so you have no
development of ideas etc so
cool well done i'll just give you a well
done there
um no what i mean thank you sergey
no worries you're watching for those
feedback i think i would be able to use
them during my exam
i actually have an exam on april 17th
okay so i hope this will be a big help
thank you
terrific well done well done good luck
thank you sir thank you
okay let me try to click this button
um manually while i do this can you put
yourself sorry
sir
cool all right let's push on come on
let's get through this
that was fun that was fun all right
let's move on to part three
part three before we talk about part
three if you're watching this on youtube
don't forget to click that subscribe
button
and become one of our you might even get
close to being our millionth subscriber
we're getting close to that
so please do click that subscribe button
but again if you want to prepare
properly for your ielts test check out
e2language.com and i hate to say
you might have to prepare yes you might
have to prepare and study for this test
okay part three of the discussion the
questions
in part three carry on from the topic
you just did in part two so if you
talked about
art in part two in part three
you're going to have questions with the
examiner about
art deeper more philosophical questions
or
about money for example and that's
exactly what we'll do
these questions will not be personal
questions about you per se and what you
think
they'll be a bit more about abstract
ideas
okay and it's not an iq test it's just
eliciting language
so don't worry about that
we looked before about how you can
expand your answers
to get a higher score this includes
giving your opinion on something
providing details contrasting
comparing and giving reasons so please
keep all of these things in mind
this is what you want to do when you're
answering the examiner's questions
and you want to speak for about i don't
know maybe about
15 to 20 seconds 20 to 30 seconds
whatever feels natural don't make it go
on for too long
ah cool let's do it and um why not do it
with somebody
here we go let's i've got uh
someone in mind here i'm gonna choose
solomon
hello solomon
i think you're on mute you might have to
unmute yourself
okay solomon you there no all right
let's try something else
okay let's try hemani
pretty good where are you calling from
yes i just lost you can you repeat it
again where are you calling from
i'm calling from bangalore india oh nice
i like bangalore it's one of my favorite
cities in india cool let's cut to the
chase hemang
ready i'm going to ask you some
questions you're going to give me some
nice
deep philosophical replies we're going
to talk about art so we're carrying on
from that uh
part two that we did before so hemang
what kind of art
do you enjoy
i enjoyed especially
sand art because it is very much
traditional and basically you can uh
design anything uh over the sand you
make them the
colorful art as well so i like the
sand art very much uh here we have in
a sent artist from orissa his name is
sudashin patnak and he is
like he got the padmashree award from
the government of india
as well and every time thank you
are there other traditional art forms in
your culture
yes so we have uh many different
different art cultures uh
uh are there uh they are like uh
they are with us like past thousand
years or more than that
i can if i want to name it like it's uh
it's a
art on the clothes art on the uh
on the glasses art on the
different type of materials for example
steel
[Music]
and yeah thank you
what do you think makes a good painting
sorry can you repeat the question what
do you think makes a good
painting yes so
an uh i
uh idea of a person like uh the way he
want to show right a painter want to
show
and how he prepare it basically it will
make a good painting it it not just a
color or a
pattern he has used but how
how how he was creative and prepared the
painting it makes it
more like great
should children study art at school do
you think
yes i believe if if they are interested
for that uh
kids should learn whatever they are
interested and not just the
only the curriculum
just continue on that one a little bit
more yes so
i wanted to say like uh if they are
interested in art and
if they really want to learn learn it
then
school should be provide them this
facility and
study i mean make them prepare for the
art and paintings
that will create that will that will
make them more creative
and more creative thinking uh they will
have
their ideas on various various things
and uh it will be good for their
mental growth as well so i believe that
it's a good idea
uh one more question hemang what makes
somebody artistic
it's all about like how how a person you
are maybe
i think every everyone is artist in this
world right now because uh
we all have different different thoughts
uh
i have some different thoughts you have
some different thoughts and based on
that uh
we will have our own
our own space where we create the things
in our mind right
and at the same time if we if we are if
we want to do it on the paper or
somewhere
in in some other form that will be
that will be make us to push to push to
be a artist
thank you all right herman how do you
feel about your performance
uh i think it's okay yep any areas you
think you can improve um
i think i can uh improve over the
vocabularies i
i think while i was speaking i i don't
get much words
uh like so i think i can i can improve
that good one yeah that's my that's my
biggest
uh point for you is um there were quite
a few hesitations while you're thinking
for that word you were going uh uh
i could hear you sort of looking through
your brain trying to find that
vocabulary so
i think if i were you i would really do
a really try to refresh your vocabulary
before your exam
um i i can i can hear that you
definitely have the language like you
have the
you have the grammar of very few
grammatical errors
your pronunciation's fine you definitely
have a
a strong accent at times it's a little
bit
unclear but not too bad that's
definitely not your
issue the issue there is hesitation and
fluency and
really finding that finding that word
making it more effortless to speak so
you'll have to um one thing i'll
recommend for you
if you do want to build vocabulary is a
course on e2school.com called test ready
which is
it really does help build that sort of
academic vocabulary
but also just just sort of reading
widely across different topics et cetera
before your exam try to do that
but um cool well thanks very much i
appreciate yeah you can
you can wish me best luck for this
sunday i have exam
i wish you the best of luck email thank
you thank you jay
bye
okay cool
all right so um
let's do it let's do one more
why not let me find one more uh
misbah
nope this is gone all right let me go
down the list here let me find somebody
who wants to do it
uh let's go elena
all right let's type in alina
hello alina
hello jay can you hear me i can
that's great it's great where are you
calling from i
am calling from dubai and are you
filipino as well
no in pakistani i just started okay yeah
interesting accents yeah okay so what's
your first language
well i i
grew up uh in the middle east so
my parents have taught me english my
entire life so i know a bit of urdu
but i would consider english my first
language not to do
okay okay great all right terrific cool
all right alina we're going to talk
about money okay
why not so alina is money
important to you uh yes i do consider
money being a very
essential item and a need
that everyone need in this world
money is used as a source of
living people need it to
live now in this world it isn't
like the barter system that was in the
past but
now money is used
to go forward in life basically thank
you
how much money is enough in life
money can never be enough i would say a
lot of people
it as a person would
start off as something as how much money
they would need
but as time would go by they would
become greedy and they would want more
and more and more
so there always has to be a full stop to
things
i in my opinion i think that a person
should always be happy with what they
have
and not always go far to want more
but you mentioned greed
what other problems does money cause in
society
other problems that money cause
i could say that a lot of family
problems can occur
when someone needs money they and they
cannot apply for
a loan or anything they could always go
to their close relatives and ask
for you know a short time where they
could pay that money back
but um that
in turn could lead to many uh
relationship
problems or if
uh i'm sorry i just have too many things
going on around here
um that's fine that's fine uh next
question
uh do young people save enough money
nowadays do you think
well um i would like to talk about this
as many children they grow up with
inheritance from their parents
and they can they become spoiled and
they move you know they just blow up
their money around
but if parents treat their children and
teach them right
they could learn and they could work and
save up and work towards
what they want and understand the real
value of money in today's world
as money is literally everything you
want something
and if you can get it if you have money
you can
you have the means to get what you want
right so
i think that children should learn the
importance of money
not exploit it but work towards
uh getting a good amount of it but not
overuse
so it is uh there are two sides to the
coin you could say
last question is money the only way a
society no that question's crazy i made
that question up before it's
i'm very complicated too complicated
that's the nature of part three though
that
the examiner really is really is getting
you to push
pushing you into um spaces of ideas
where you have to use
really abstract language so that's the
nature of part three
it's it's not small talk it's um yeah
philosophical talk cool so if you think
about the scoring that we've been
looking at how do you think you went
um actually i would like to apologize i
had a lot of people around me and
while i was talking they were all
running out i thought
i need to talk here so um okay
that's why so that was a little
mistake over there but uh i think i did
all right i was
getting nervous yeah yep that's that's
again that's just gonna be a natural
part of everybody's test day
um anxiety will appear you'll shake your
voice will tremble whatever you just
have to yes
concentrate it's only 11 to 14 minutes
of your life so you can definitely do it
uh cool so my feedback to you is
obviously because your
um your first language is is english
um pronunciation was crystal clear
um grammar there were no grammatical
issues
and you certainly you certainly
i i don't think you exercised your
vocabulary range as much as you could
have perhaps that's because you were
distracted with
the people around you but yeah you sort
of warmed up towards the end of it you
started to get right into it and um
give me much richer answers towards the
end but um
at the beginning i felt like they were a
little bit restrained so
one of the things you have to do on test
day is really quite show off
to the examiner you know yes all right
ideas will pop into your head and and
and um
yeah show off as much of your language
as you possibly can but um
no i think you'll be i think you'll be
fine on test day
thank you jay thank you so much no
problem thanks a lot for participating
thank you
okay ah i don't want to do that
i can't tell you how annoying that
little thing is i click on it disappears
click disappears
anyway it's back cool uh all right we've
nearly
finished here just a few little things
before we go
um thank you to everyone who's
participated it's very brave of you
but i think it's good practice okay so
before we
uh finish up let's just reflect on what
we've learned and the performances that
we've listened to so how well did
you do especially in part two because i
think that's the most challenging
what did you find difficult and when you
think about the scoring that we looked
at in several
times which aspects of the scoring do
you need to work on
is it fluency is it coherence is it
development of ideas is it your grammar
is it your pronunciation
uh is it vocabulary range etc
and then the question is how can you
work on it of course
i think the best place to prepare for
your ielts is e2language.com
you can attend our live classes you can
watch all the methods lessons which
aren't on youtube all of them are on
e2language.com
there is heaps of practice questions you
can take one-on-one tutorials you can
get writing feedback there's also a mock
test with speaking feedback or a couple
of mock tests that you can take
where you actually take a one-on-one
speaking simulation with one of our
expert ielts teachers which is very
helpful
cool um i'm
a little bit reluctant to do a q a
because there's about 1400 people
watching
but maybe i'll just answer a few
questions i'll pick out here if you have
any burning questions please pop them
into the chat
mary says jay in one of my ielts tests i
had the topic of money and the examiner
asked me is money the root of all
evil how do you think we can answer that
question
that's a funny question i didn't know
that they would phrase it that way i
i think like asking if money creates
problems in society is a
fine question is it the root of all evil
um i don't know perhaps you could have
asked
answered it with a bit of humor me
personally i would say
definitely not i think it can contribute
to evil in society but i don't think
it's the
sole cause of evil in the world
okay here's a question jay how can i
build my vocabulary great question from
ram
okay vocabulary building is
something that you have to be conscious
of and you have to consciously do you
have to read and you have to write down
words that you don't know and you have
to read across a variety of different
disciplines
um what a couple of websites come to
mind one is called science
daily it's just a sort of
pop science website where all the
articles are categorized by technology
and education environment
and health science whatever read across
that just make it a little habit
of 15 minutes a day where you just sort
of pick up some new vocab
vocabulary is one of those painful
things where you have to consciously
learn it though we do have an excellent
course on e2school.com
it's the level 5 course and it's all
about building your academic vocabulary
which will be very helpful
um
okay
cool i think i'm just going to pull up
stumps there
okay i'll answer this one from mo how
philosophical will the examiner go do
you think well the examiner has
set questions they're allowed to go a
little bit off script
with their questions but they're not
going to ask you about the meaning of
life they're not going to get into
topics like religion or anything like
that
they're very much going to be focused on
those quite boring mundane topics like
money or art's not boring but those
sorts of topics so it's not going to get
too
philosophical you're not going to be
talking about quantum physics for
example which is good
cool i think that's all i'm going to
leave you there
thanks very much for coming along i hope
it was helpful if you want to join me
again
remember to subscribe to the youtube
channel or check out e2language.com
um i bid you farewell if you're taking
your exam soon i wish you all the very
best